AWS offers Savings Plans for a few compute services, including Amazon EC2. **EC2 Instance Savings Plans** reduce your EC2 instance costs when you make an hourly spend commitment to an instance family and Region for a 1-year or 3-year term. This term commitment results in savings of up to 72 percent compared to On-Demand rates. Any usage up to the commitment is charged at the discounted Savings Plans rate (for example, $10 per hour). Any usage beyond the commitment is charged at regular On-Demand rates.

The EC2 Instance Savings Plans are a good option if you need flexibility in your Amazon EC2 usage over the duration of the commitment term. You have the benefit of saving costs on running any EC2 instance within an EC2 instance family in a chosen Region (for example, M5 usage in N. Virginia) regardless of [[Availability Zone]], instance size, OS, or tenancy. The savings with EC2 Instance Savings Plans are similar to the savings provided by Standard Reserved Instances.

Unlike Reserved Instances, however, you don't need to specify up front what EC2 instance type and size (for example, m5.xlarge), OS, and tenancy to get a discount. Further, you don't need to commit to a certain number of EC2 instances over a 1-year or 3-year term. Additionally, the EC2 Instance Savings Plans don't include an EC2 capacity reservation option.

Later in this course, you'll review AWS Cost Explorer, which you can use to visualize, understand, and manage your AWS costs and usage over time. If you're considering your options for Savings Plans, you can use AWS Cost Explorer to analyze your Amazon EC2 usage over the past 7, 30, or 60 days. AWS Cost Explorer also provides customized recommendations for Savings Plans. These recommendations estimate how much you could save on your monthly Amazon EC2 costs, based on previous Amazon EC2 usage and the hourly commitment amount in a 1-year or 3-year Savings Plan.