[[Cryptography]] has many applications in today's modern world. You've seen how [[encryption]] can ensure the [[confidentiality]] of messages. You also learned how [[hashing]] is used in [[digital signatures]] to verify a message hasn't been tampered with. In this unit, you'll learn about [[digital certificates]] and how they provide an added layer of security.

Certificates address the possibility of an unethical person intercepting, altering, or counterfeiting messages that can occur in digital communication.

Essentially, a digital certificate is a credential issued by a **certificate authority** (CA) that can be used to verify the identity of an individual or entity to whom the certificate is issued, referred to as the subject. In this sense, a digital certificate is like a passport or other identity credential issued by a trusted authority or government agency, it's used to verify an identity. The data in a certificate includes information about the subject, the subject’s public key from their public/private key pair, and has been verified by the CA.

To obtain a digital certificate, the individual or entity submits a certification request to a reputable CA. Details of the requestor's identity and their public key, from the public/private key pair generated from an available tool, are included in the certificate request. In some cases, the requestor may look to have the CA issue a key pair on their behalf, as part of the request. In either case, the private key is always kept secret by the individual or entity. The CA reviews all the identity information submitted in the request to determine whether it meets the CA's criteria for issuing a certificate. If the CA approves the request, it signs and issues a certificate containing information about the subject and the subject's public key.

The lifespan of a digital certificate tends to be one year, after which the certificate expires. When that happens, you'll see a warning message about expired certificates. The warning indicates that the subject’s identity can't be confirmed.

A common application of digital certificates, that is visible to the user, is in web-based communication. Digital certificates are employed by websites that use secure _HTTPS_ communication, and is denoted by a padlock icon in the browser's address bar. Selecting the padlock on the address bar provides several options that can be selected and provide additional information.