is a Microsoft-authored set of guidelines for security and compliance that provides best practices and recommendations to help improve the security of workloads, data, and services on Azure and your multicloud environment. The [[Microsoft cloud security benchmark (MCSB)]] builds on the controls from the Center for Internet Security (CIS) and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) with a focus on cloud-centric security.

The best way to understand the Microsoft cloud security benchmark is to view it on GitHub [Microsoft_cloud_security_benchmark](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/SecurityBenchmarks/tree/master/Microsoft%20Cloud%20Security%20Benchmark). The MCSB provides many columns of data. Some key pieces of information include:
- ID - Each line item in the MCSB has an identifier that maps to a specific recommendation.
- Control domain - A control is a high-level description of a feature or activity that needs to be addressed and isn't specific to a technology or implementation. MCSB control domains include network security, data protection, identity management, privileged access, incident response, endpoint security to name just a few.
- Mapping to industry frameworks - The recommendations included in the MCSB map to existing industry frameworks, such as the Center for Internet Security (CIS), the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (PCI DSS) frameworks. This makes security and compliance easier for customer applications running on Azure services.
- Recommendation - For each control domain area there can be many distinct recommendations. For example, the "Network Security" control domain in MCSB v1 has 10 distinct recommendations identified as NS-1 through NS-10; in which the first recommendation identified as NS-1 is to establish network segmentation boundaries.
- Azure Guidance - Azure Guidance is focused on the "how" and it elaborates on the relevant technical features and ways to implement the controls in Azure. In the example of NS-1, the Azure guidance includes information regarding creating a virtual network, using network security groups (NSG), and using an application security group (ASG).
- AWS Guidance - The AWS guidance is focused on the "how" specific to AWS, explaining the AWS technical features and implementation basics.
The [[mcsb]] also includes links to information on implementation that relate to the Azure and AWS guidance, information about security functions at the customer organization who may be accountable, responsible, or consulted for the respective control, and more. An excerpt from the Microsoft cloud security benchmark version 1 (MCSB v1) and is shown as an example of the type of the content that is included in the MCSB. The image isn't intended to show the complete text for any of the line items.